# DHT11 Driver for STM32

Timer - interrupt based asynchronous driver for DHT11 temperature and humidity sensor with external pull-up.

## Integration
1. Add the driver files to your project:
Src/dht11.c
Inc/dht11.h

2. Edit #include "stm32f3xx_hal.h" to a file that contains hal for your chip, the one currently included is for NUCLEO-F303RE

3. Enable timer clock, set priority for NVIC and enable it in HAL_TIM_Base_MspInit,
add deinitialization for timer and NVIC as well f.ex. for TIM6 on  NUCLEO-F303RE:
    
        // This function configures the hardware resources used in this example
        void HAL_TIM_Base_MspInit(TIM_HandleTypeDef* htim_base)
        {
          if(htim_base->Instance==TIM6)
          {
            __HAL_RCC_TIM6_CLK_ENABLE();
            HAL_NVIC_SetPriority(TIM6_DAC_IRQn, 0, 0);
            HAL_NVIC_EnableIRQ(TIM6_DAC_IRQn);
          }
        }
        
        // This function freeze the hardware resources used in this example
        void HAL_TIM_Base_MspDeInit(TIM_HandleTypeDef* htim_base)
        {
          if(htim_base->Instance==TIM6)
          {
            __HAL_RCC_TIM6_CLK_DISABLE();
            HAL_NVIC_DisableIRQ(TIM6_DAC_IRQn);
          }
        }
4. Add function that calls DHT11_Service_Callback() in interrupt handler f.ex. on NUCLEO-F303RE for TIM6:

        void TIM6_DAC_IRQHandler(void)
        {
          HAL_TIM_IRQHandler(&DHT11_tim);
        }
        
        void HAL_TIM_PeriodElapsedCallback(TIM_HandleTypeDef *htim)
        {
          if (htim->Instance == DHT11_tim.Instance){
              DHT11_Service_Callback();
          }
        }

5. Include dht11.h to your main.h file.
## Configuration & Usage Guide
In order to make driver work do steps stated in Integration, call DHT11_Init before using driver, if it fails it will return DHT11_ERROR and DHT11_OK otherwise,
you should pass timer instance that you want to use to this function (should support 16bit prescaler and counter) and gpio port and pin on which you have the sensor connected
(don't forget to enable the clock for the port you will be using, and ensure that the pin support being an open drain output).
The function call to DHT11_Init should look like this:

    if(DHT11_Init(TIM6, GPIOA, GPIO_PIN_0) != DHT11_OK){
        //error
    }
In order to store the data generated by driver you should initialize variable of DHT11_data type.
When you want to read the data from sensor call DHT11_Read function and pass it pointer of where your variable is. If something wrong goes in the function it will return DHT11_ERROR.
When the data is transmitted and ready to read the flag called DHT11_data_ready will be set.
example function call:

    DHT11_data data;
    while (1)
    {
        if(DHT11_Read(&data) == DHT11_ERROR){
            //error
        }
        while(!DHT11_data_ready){
            //do other work
            continue;
        }
    }
The values stored in DHT11_data are 5 bytes and they follow this schema:

    {
    uint8_t integral_rh; // humidity integral part
    uint8_t fraction_rh; // humidity fraction part
    uint8_t integral_temp; // temperature integral part
    uint8_t fraction_temp; // temperature fraction part
    uint8_t checksum; // checksum, which is cheched in the driver
    }
    
if the reading was invalid all the values will be set to 255.
